In this notebook, MNIST and
ConvNet, ConvNet stands for
Convolution Neural Network, and
that's different type of layer.
So for instance in this example I'm using
instead of just adding to the model,
another way to initialize your model
is to provide the list of layers,
when you simply creating your model,
right|?
So on the sequential you
will initialize it with and
also I'm specifying explicitly
tf.keras.layers.Conv.
Conv2D actually pretty tricky one,
what it's doing the way
how you initialize it,
you need to specify how many filters
convolutions you want to have,
and the size of the filter and
what should be the input shape.
In our case, we don't need to flatten
our images we'll be using 28 by 28.
But on top of that,
we will be providing several images
simultaneously as the input.
So it's called mini batching.
And probably before I go really,
really deep I need to
explain what convolution is,
and what max pooling is.
All right, so let's switch to drawing
board again and talk about two things.
Convolutions and
Max Pooling or just Pooling.
So those two layers or operations
are used in image processing a lot.
And Alex net, the topology the model,
which was image
net competition in 2012
introduced those big time.
So pretty much all of the layers they
had was those convolutions and poolings.
So what is convolution?
Let's say we have image,
our handwritten digits 28 by 28 pixels.
And in convolution you can specify
a filter, for instance, 3 by 3, right?
That's the one I will be using in
my notebook, here we go, right?
So when I'm saying 3 by 3,
it's basically telling me what size
of the filters I should be using.
But I need to explain the operation
itself, what convolution is doing.
So it just taking first 3 by 3
pixels from your image, right?
And the result of the operation of
applying convolution in homedics.
Convolution is just taking
the intensity of the first pixel and
multiplied by the intensity of our filter.
Then taking the second multiplying
by the second pixel and
adding the results to the multiplications
we got from the first pixel.
So basically if you think about it for
every pixel in the image,
we're taking the corresponding
pixel from our filter,
multiplying them to each other and
adding the result together.
So what that means if you have for
instance and
this image I'm just putting it here,
if you have large number here, kinda 255,
And you have pretty large
number in your filter.
This particular pixel will be
significantly amplified, right?
And if your filter is equal to 0,
It will kill it down.
So it's still the same kinda weights,
right?
But what is interesting here
when you add this summation,
if for instance, you have pretty high
intensity pixels here and let's say here.
And you have exactly the same high
intensity in the same cells of your
filter, the operation of
convolution will be pretty large.
So it means that your filters can look for
some very specific feature
on the original image.
So when you did this operation, you
are simply switching to the next pair or
next 3 by 3 pixels, and you just propagate
this window, all lower the original image.
And at the ends, for instance, if you had,
let's say handwritten digit 4, right?
And your pixel,
your filter looked like this.
So it was only pretty much looking for
parts of the images where
we had vertical lines activated or
if we for instance puts like this.
So operation of the convolution
will have pretty high intensity
in those regions, where we had,
actually let me write like this.
It will have pretty high intensity here.
Pretty much everywhere where
we had vertical lines.
And will be not that large
in our horizontal lines.
It will simply remember that
all this multiplications and
additions will give you less numbers for
horizontal lines just because your
filter is not aligned with this one.
So convolution operation,
simply doing a couple of things.
So you can think about fully
connected neural network.
All the pixels from the original
image were connected with
all the neurons in your next layer.
With a convolution,
you only connecting first three,
well actually nine pixels, right?
To your convolution neural neurons.
So it means that instead of having
fully connected neural network,
you will now have partially
connected neural network.
But also this convolution operation,
it's got the physical meaning.
We're looking for
some features on the original image.
And second operation pooling,
is also pretty interesting.
Max pooling is the operation
where we're just taking
let's say 2 by 2 vision of the image and
we have different intensities here,
I don't know, some numbers.
We will just simply
grab the largest value.
And that's gonna be
the output of our operation.
So we will get rid of all other pixels,
all other three pixels.
So if you had, let's say,
the original 28 by 28 pixels,
by applying a pooling
operation you will reduce
the dimensionality of your image
from 28 to only 14, right?
Because you're getting rid of
all of those additional pixels.
So but the most intensive
ones will still propagate.
So in image processing, it makes
a lot of sense and it is very useful.